.\" Copyright (c) 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\"
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\"
.Dd September 24, 2024
.Dt DOUBLEAGENTD 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm doubleagentd
.Nd A daemon for parsing AppleDouble files in userspace
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
takes no arguments, and users should not launch it manually.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
receives requests from the kernel to parse AppleDouble files
.Pq and modify them, if needed .
AppleDouble files are used by file systems which do not natively
support extended attributes, such as the MS-DOS and ExFAT file
systems.
.Pp
.Nm
is launched automatically by
.Xr launchd 8
when the kernel needs to access an AppleDouble file that contains
extended attributes for a base file.
.Sh FILES
.Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.doubleagentd.plist
