.Dd January 19, 2012
.Dt SPCTL 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm spctl
.Nd SecAssessment system policy security
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar --assess
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Op Fl Dv
.Ar
.Nm
.Ar --status
.Nm
.Ar --global-enable
.Nm
.Ar --global-disable | --disable-status
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
manages the security assessment policy subsystem.
.Pp
This subsystem maintains and evaluates rules that determine whether
the system allows the installation, execution, and other operations on
files on the system.
.Pp
.Nm
requires one command option that determines its principal operation:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl a, -assess
Requests that
.Nm
perform an assessment on the
.Ar files
given.
.It Fl -global-enable
Enable the assessment subsystem.
Operations that are denied by system policy will fail;
assessment APIs report the truth.
Requires root access.
.It Fl -global-disable
Reveal the option to allow applications downloaded from anywhere in the Privacy & Security settings pane.
.It Fl -disable-status
Query whether the option to allow applications downloaded from anywhere in the Privacy & Security settings pane is available.
.It Fl -status
Query whether the assessment subsystem is enabled or disabled.
.El
.Pp
In addition, the following options are recognized:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl -continue
If the assessment of a file fails, continue assessing additional file arguments.
Without this option, the first failed assessment terminates operation.
.It Fl -ignore-cache
Do not query or use the assessment object cache.
This may significantly slow down operation.
Newly generated assessments may still be stored in the cache.
.It Fl -no-cache
Do not place the outcome of any assessments into the assessment object cache.
No other assessment may reuse this outcome.
This option not prohibit the use of existing cache entries.
.It Fl -raw
When displaying the outcome of an assessment, write it as a \&"raw\&" XML plist instead of parsing it
in somewhat more friendly form.
This is useful when used in scripts, or to access newly invented assessment aspects that
.Nm
does not yet know about.
.It Fl t, -type
Specify which type of assessment is desired:
.Ar execute
to assess code execution,
.Ar install
to assess installation of an installer package, and
.Ar open
to assess the opening of documents.
The default is to assess execution.
.It Fl v, -verbose
Requests more verbose output.
Repeat the option or give it a higher numeric value to increase verbosity.
.El
.Sh DEPRECATED OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
As of MacOS 15.0, operations that modify the rule database or the global state
of the assessment subsystem will no longer be supported.
.Pp
To add rules with configuration profiles, please see
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/devicemanagement/systempolicyrule
.Pp
To modify the global state with configuration profiles, please see
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/devicemanagement/systempolicycontrol
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl -add
Add rule(s) to the system-wide assessment rule database.
.It Fl -disable
Disable one or more rules in the assessment rule database.
Disabled rules are not considered when performing assessment, but
remain in the database and can be re-enabled later.
.It Fl -enable
Enable rule(s) in the assessment rule database, counteracting earlier disabling.
.It Fl -remove
Remove rule(s) from the assessment rule database.
.It Fl -reset-default
Unconditionally reset the system policy database to its default value. This discards all changes
made by administrators. It also heals any corruption to the database. It does not implicitly either
enable or disable the facility. This must be done as the super user. Reboot after use.
.It Fl -anchor
In rule update operations, indicates that the arguments are hashes of anchor certificates.
.It Fl -hash
In rule update operations, indicates that the arguments are code directory hashes.
.It Fl -label Ar label
Specifies a string label to attach to new rules, or find in existing rules.
Labels are arbitrary strings that are assigned by convention.
Rule labels are optional.
.It Fl -path
In rule update operations, indicates that the argument(s) denote paths to files on disk.
.It Fl -priority Ar priority
In rule update operations, specifies the priority of the rule(s) created or changed.
Priorities are floating-point numbers.
Higher numeric values indicate higher priority.
.It Fl -requirement
In rule update operations, indicates that the argument(s) are code requirement source.
.It Fl -rule
In rule update operations, indicates that the argument(s) are the index numbers of existing rules.
.El
.Sh RULE SUBJECTS
The system assessement rule database contains entries that match candidates based on
Code Requirements.
.Nm
allows you to specify these requirements directly using the
.Fl -requirement
option.
In addition, individual programs on disk can be addressed with the --path option (which uses their Designated Requirement).
The
.Fl -anchor
option takes the hash of a (full) certificate and turns it into a requirement matching any
signature based on that anchor certificate.
Alternatively, it can take the absolute path of a certificate file on disk, containing the DER form of an anchor certificate.
Finally, the
.Fl -hash
option generates a code requirement that
denotes only and exactly one program whose CodeDirectory hash is given.
The means of specifying subjects does not affect the remaining processing.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/var/db/SystemPolicyConfiguration/.SystemPolicy-default" -compact
.It Pa /var/db/SystemPolicyConfiguration/SystemPolicy
The system policy database.
.It Pa /var/db/SystemPolicyConfiguration/.SystemPolicy-default
A copy of the initial distribution version of the system policy database.
Useful for starting over
if the database gets messed up beyond recognition.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To check whether Mail.app is allowed to run on the local system:
.Dl spctl -a /Applications/Mail.app
To check whether the assessment subsystem is enabled:
.Dl spctl --status
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
exits zero on success, or one if an operation has failed.
Exit code two indicates unrecognized or unsuitable arguments.
If an assessment operation results in denial but no other problem has
occurred, the exit code is three. Exit code four indicates the operation
is now deprecated.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr codesign 1 ,
.Xr syspolicyd 1
.\" .Sh BUGS
.Sh HISTORY
The system policy facility and
.Nm
command first appeared in Mac OS X Lion 10.7.3 as a limited developer preview.
