.\" Copyright (c) 2022-2023, Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd December 1, 2023
.Dt TRACE 1
.Os "Darwin"
.Sh NAME
.Nm trace
.Nd record and modify trace files
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Bl -hang -compact -width "trace "
.It Nm Cm record Ar file-name Op options
.It Nm Cm amend Ar file-path Fl Fl add Ar provider Op options
.It Nm Cm trim Ar file-name Op options
.It Nm Cm plans Op options
.It Nm Cm providers Op options
.El
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
records and modifies files of software events used for performance analysis.
A trace file captures what the system was doing over a period of time,
like which threads are scheduled,
what memory is used for the first time,
and thousands of other kinds of events from software running in the kernel,
user space,
or on coprocessors.
.
.Sh RECORD
Trace files
.Po
with the
.Sy .atrc
extension
.Pc
capture how a Darwin system behaves for a period of time.
By default, they include a selection of kdebug trace events,
Unified Logging information,
and metadata to support analysis,
like symbols and machine configuration.
.Pp
The
.Cm record
subcommand creates these files from the current system,
according to a plan and options passed in on the command line.
The
.Ar file-name
positional argument is used as a prefix and can include path components.
The path to the file is derived by adding an incrementing number at the end,
followed by the file extension.
To write to a particular file path, end the argument with
.Ql .atrc .
The default plan produces files readable by Instruments System Trace and
.Xr spindump 1 .
.Pp
Plans support safe configuration by the user with
.Ql layers
and
.Ql providers .
Layers are listed by the help output for
.Nm Cm record
and alter basic configuration of the plan,
like which events are collected.
Listing providers is not yet implemented,
but they add more complex features,
like custom data sources beyond kdebug trace.
Unified Logging support is implemented as a provider,
for instance.
.Pp
This subcommand is opinionated about unsafe operations,
and requires any options that may impact the reliability of the tool to also include the
.Fl Fl unsafe
flag to acknowledge that the files produced may be unusable.
Experimental features are treated similarly,
requiring a
.Fl Fl experimental
flag while they are still being vetted.
.Pp
.Bl -tag
.It Fl Fl help | Fl h
Present a help message for the
.Cm record
subcommand.
.It Fl Fl plan
Use a non-default plan.
Must be one of those listed by
.Nm Cm plans .
.It Fl Fl add Ar layer-or-provider
Add a layer or provider to the chosen plan, augmenting its behavior.
The list of layers is shown in the help message or
.Nm Cm plans.
The list of providers can be obtained using
.Nm Cm providers .
.It Fl Fl Ar provider-name Ns : Ns Ar option-name Ns = Ns Ar option-value
Set the option
.Ar option-name
to
.Ar option-value
for use by the provider named
.Ar provider-name .
The list of possible options are reported by
.Nm Cm providers .
.It Fl Fl omit Ar layer-or-provider
Omit a default layer or provider from the chosen plan.
.It Fl Fl overwrite
Allow the output file to overwrite a pre-existing file.
.It Fl Fl compress
Compress the events in the output file.
.It Fl Fl notify-after-start Ar notification-name
Emit a Darwin notification named
.Ar notification-name
with
.Xr notify 3
after starting the trace session.
Other systems can use this notification to stage their workloads,
either with the
.Xr notify 3
interfaces or
.Xr notifyutil 1 .
For instance,
.Ql notifyutil -1 ktrace-start
will wait for the notification named
.Ar ktrace-start
to be published and then exit.
This option can be specified multiple times to send additional notifications.
.It Fl Fl notify-after-end Ar notification-name
Emit a Darwin notification named
.Ar notification-name
with
.Xr notify 3
after the trace session has finished.
.It Xo
.Fl Fl end-after-duration
.Ar duration Ns
.Ns Sy s
.Xc
End tracing after the specified time period elapses.
.It Fl Fl end-on-notification Ar notification-name
End tracing when a Darwin notification matching the
.Ar notification-nameis published with
.Xr notify 3 .
.It Fl Fl end-on-kdebug-event Ar event-id
End tracing when a kdebug event with the given
.Ar event-id
is emitted.
This is currently experimental and unsafe if the event is not part of the plan.
.It Fl Fl end-after-kdebug-events-size Ar size-bytes
End tracing when the file reaches the specified
.Ar size-bytes
number of bytes for kdebug events.
.It Fl Fl trailing-duration Ar duration
Only include events within the specified
.Ar duration
before trace is ended.
In other words, keep a ringbuffer of events, dropping any that are older than
.Ar duration
time in the past.
This can be used to reduce the impact of recording's I/O on storage,
at the cost of higher CPU usage spent processing incoming events.
.It Fl Fl start-on-notification Ar notification-name
Wait to start tracing until a Darwin notification matching the
.Ar notification-name
is published with
.Xr notify 3
or
.Xr notifyutil 1 .
For instance,
.Ql notifyutil -p ktrace-end
published a notification named
.Ar ktrace-end .
.It Fl Fl profiling-interval Ar duration
Fire the profiling timer at a different rate than the plan specifies.
The
.Ar duration
argument accepts suffixes of
.Sy us ,
.Sy ms ,
and
.Sy s .
.El
.Pp
The following options are unsafe and have a may produce an unusable trace file.
.Bl -tag
.It Fl Fl unsafe
Allow unsafe options to be used.
.It Fl Fl experimental
Allow experimental plans and options to be used.
.It Fl Fl kdebug-buffer-size Ar size-with-suffix
Override the default buffer size for the kdebug trace system.
Smaller buffers are likely to lose events,
while larger buffers can have a more significant impact on the system.
.It Fl Fl kdebug-filter-include Ar filter-description
Specify additional kdebug events to include in the trace file,
following a filter description.
Filter descriptions are a comma-separated list of either two rules:
.Bl -tag
.It C Ns Ar 0x01
Filter all events in the given class;
in this case, class 1.
.It S Ns Ar 0x0140
Filter events in a particular subclass,
where the top byte is the class and the bottom byte is the subclass within that class.
In this case, class 1 and subclass 0x40.
.El
.Pp
Additional events may require changes to the buffer size.
.It Fl Fl kdebug-filter-exclude Ar filter-description
Prevent kdebug events from being included in the trace file,
following a filter description.
Some events are necessary for particular analysis tools.
.It Fl Fl prioritize-collection
Increase the priority of the collection thread,
at the cost of potentially interfering with the workload being measured.
.El
.
.Sh AMEND
.Nm Cm amend
adds more information to previously-recorded trace files from providers.
.Bl -tag
.It Fl Fl add Ar provider-name
At least one provider must be added to the amending process.
.It Fl Fl provider-name Ns : Ns option-name Ns = Ns option-value
Set options for the provider to amend with,
as described in
.Nm Cm providers .
.
.Sh TRIM
.Nm Cm trim
removes events from a trace file except for those within a specified time range.
.Bl -tag
.It Fl Fl from Ar time-spec
Removes all events before the provided
.Ar time-spec ,
which is a number interpreted based on its prefix:
.Bl -tag
.It Sy @
event timestamp
.It Sy +
seconds since the start of tracing
.It Sy -
seconds before the end of tracing
.El
.It Fl Fl to Ar time-spec
Removes all events after the provided
.Ar time-spec .
.It Fl Fl output | Fl o Ar path
Write the trimmed file to the specified
.Ar path .
.
.Sh PLANS
.Nm Cm plans
lists the plans available to
.Nm Cm record
and the layers that can be added to them.
.Bl -tag
.It Fl Fl verbose
Print additional information about each plan, like its documentation.
.It Fl Fl experimental
Show experimental plans.
.El
.
.Sh PROVIDERS
.Nm Cm providers
lists the providers available to
.Nm Cm record
and the options that can be passed to them.
.Bl -tag
.It Fl Fl experimental
Show experimental providers.
.El
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag
.It Ev KTRACE_PLAN_PATH
Redirect the tool to search for plans under the directory path set in this variable.
This requires the
.Fl Fl experimental
flag.
.El
.
.Sh KTRACE
The
.Ql ktrace
feature is supported by two kernel subsystems:
kdebug provides the event format and buffering system and
kperf emits sampling information as events based on triggers.
.Pp
The event format used by kdebug is simple and constraining, but effective.
Events are classified using a 32-bit debug ID:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
 class  subclass     code     function
╭──────┬───────┬─────────────┬─╮
│  8   │   8   │     14      │2│
╰──────┴───────┴─────────────┴─╯
╰──────────────╯               │
 class-subclass              00│
╰──────────────────────────────╯
│          event ID            │
╰──────────────────────────────╯
           debug ID
.Ed
.Pp
Classes are assigned in
.In sys/kdebug.h
for broad parts of the system.
Each class can assign its own subclasses.
The class-subclass is the finest granularity that can be filtered on.
Codes are for specific events in each subclass,
and functions denote whether the event is a start
.Pq Dv DBG_FUNC_START ,
end
.Pq Dv DBG_FUNC_END ,
or impulse
.Pq left unset .
An event ID is a debug ID with the function bits set to 0.
.Pp
Events also contain a timestamp, 4 pointer-sized arguments,
the ID of the thread that emitted the event,
and the CPU ID on which it was emitted.
The CPU ID may be greater than the number of CPUs on the system \(em
denoting a coprocessor event.
.Pp
Trace files can be analyzed with dedicated tools,
including
.Xr fs_usage 1 ,
.Xr spindump 1 ,
or
Instruments,
depending on how they were recorded and the filters in effect.
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fs_usage 1 ,
.Xr notify 3 ,
.Xr ktrace 5 ,
and
.Xr ktrace 1
