.\"Copyright (c) 1999-2022 Apple Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\"as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\"Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\"compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\"http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\"file.
.\"
.\"The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\"distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\"EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\"INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\"FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\"Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\"limitations under the License.

.\"To preview: /usr/bin/nroff -msafer -mandoc ditto.1 | less
.\"To check for errors: /usr/bin/groff -I/usr/share/man -S -Wall -mtty-char -mandoc -Tascii ditto.1 > /dev/null

.Dd June 1, 2022
.Dt DITTO 1
.Os "macOS 13.0"
.Sh NAME
.Nm ditto
.Nd copy directory hierarchies, create and extract archives
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Op Fl X
.Op <options>
.Ar src ... dst_directory
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Op <options>
.Ar src_file dst_file
.Nm
.Fl c
.Op Fl z | Fl j | Fl k
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Op Fl X
.Op <options>
.Ar src dst_archive
.Nm
.Fl x
.Op Fl z | Fl j | Fl k
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Op <options>
.Ar src_archive ... dst_directory
.Nm
.Fl h |
.Fl Fl help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
In its first form,
.Nm
copies one or more source files or directories to a destination
directory.  If the destination directory does not exist it will be
created before the first source is copied.  If the destination
directory already exists then the source directories are merged
with the previous contents of the destination.
.Pp
In its second form,
.Nm
copies a file to the supplied
.Ar dst_file
pathname.
.Pp
The next two forms reflect
.Nm Ns 's
ability to create and extract
archives.  These archives can be either CPIO format (preferred for unix
content) or PKZip (for Windows compatibility).
.Ar src_archive
(and
.Ns Ar dst_archive )
can be the single character '-', causing ditto to read (write) archive data
from stdin (or to stdout, respectively).
.Pp
.Nm
follows symbolic links provided as arguments but does not follow any links
as it traverses the source or destination hierarchies.
.Nm
overwrites existing files, symbolic links, and devices in the destination
when these are copied from a source.  The resulting files, links, and
devices will have the same mode, access time, modification time, owner,
and group as the source items from which they are copied.  Pipes, sockets,
and files with names beginning with .nfs or .afpDeleted will be ignored.
.Nm
does not modify the mode, owner, group, extended attributes, or ACLs of existing
directories in the
destination.  Files and symbolic links cannot overwrite directories or
vice-versa.
.Pp
.Nm
can be used to "thin" Universal Mach-O binaries during a copy.
.Nm
can also copy files selectively based on the contents of a BOM
("Bill of Materials") file.
.Nm
preserves file hard links (but not directory hard links) present in the source directories and preserves
setuid and setgid modes when run as the superuser.
.Pp
.Nm
will preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data information
when copying unless instructed otherwise using
.Fl Fl norsrc
\&.
.Fl Fl norsrc
will disable copy of resource forks, extended attributes, Access Control Lists (ACLs), as well as quarantine bits.
.Ev DITTONORSRC
can be set in the environment as an alias to
.Fl Fl norsrc
.Fl Fl noextattr
.Fl Fl noacl
.Fl Fl noqtn
on the command line. However, each option can be individually turned on or off, see the OPTIONS section for more details.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "XXkeepParent"
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Print full usage.
.It Fl v
Print a line of output to stderr for each source directory copied.
.It Fl V
Print a line of output to stderr for every file, symbolic link, and device copied.
.It Fl X
When copying one or more source directories, do not descend into directories
that have a different device ID.
.It Fl c
Create an archive at the destination path.  The default format is CPIO, unless
.Fl k
is given.
CPIO archives should be stored in files with names ending in .cpio.
Compressed CPIO archives should be stored in files with names ending in
\&.cpgz.
.It Fl z
Create compressed CPIO archives, using
.Xr gzip 1
compression.
.It Fl j
Create compressed CPIO archives, using
.Xr bzip2 1
compression.
.It Fl x
Extract the archives given as source arguments. The format is assumed to
be CPIO, unless
.Fl k
is given.  Compressed CPIO is automatically handled.
.It Fl k
Create or extract from a PKZip archive instead of the default CPIO.
PKZip archives should be stored in filenames ending in .zip.
.It Fl Fl keepParent
When creating an archive, embed the parent directory name
.Ar src
in
.Ar dst_archive Ns .
.It Fl Fl arch Ar arch
Thin Universal binaries to the specified
architecture.  If multiple
.Fl Fl arch
options are specified then the resulting destination file will contain
each of the specified architectures (if they are present in the source
file).
.Ar arch
should be specified as "arm64", "x86_64", etc.
.It Fl Fl bom Ar bom
Copy only files, links, devices, and directories that are present in the
specified BOM.
.It Fl Fl rsrc
Preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data.
.Nm
will store this data in Carbon-compatible ._ AppleDouble files on
filesystems that do not natively support resource forks.  As of Mac OS X 10.4,
.Fl Fl rsrc
is default behavior.
.It Fl Fl norsrc
Do not preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data.  If both
.Fl Fl norsrc
and
.Fl Fl rsrc
are passed, whichever is passed last will take precedence.  Both options
override
.Ev DITTONORSRC Ns . Unless explicitly specified,
.Fl Fl norsrc
also implies
.Fl Fl noextattr
and
.Fl Fl noacl
to match the behavior of Mac OS X 10.4.
.It Fl Fl extattr
Preserve extended attributes (requires
.Fl Fl rsrc Ns ).
As of Mac OS X 10.5,
.Fl Fl extattr
is the default.
.It Fl Fl noextattr
Do not preserve extended attributes (requires
.Fl Fl norsrc  Ns ).
.It Fl Fl qtn
Preserve quarantine information.
As of Mac OS X 10.5,
.Fl Fl qtn
is the default.
.It Fl Fl noqtn
Do not preserve quarantine information.
.It Fl Fl acl
Preserve Access Control Lists (ACLs).
As of Mac OS X 10.5,
.Fl Fl acl
is the default.
.It Fl Fl noacl
Do not preserve ACLs.
.It Fl Fl nocache
Do not perform copies using the Mac OS X Unified Buffer Cache. Files read
and written will not be cached, although if the file is already present
in the cache, the cached information will be used.
.It Fl Fl hfsCompression
When copying files or extracting content from an archive, if the destination
is an HFS+ or APFS volume that supports filesystem compression, all the content will be compressed
if appropriate. This is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later, and is only
intended to be used in installation and backup scenarios that involve system
files. Since files using filesystem compression are not readable on versions of
Mac OS X earlier than 10.6, this flag should not be used when dealing with
non-system files or other user-generated content that will be used on a
version of Mac OS X earlier than 10.6.
.It Fl Fl nohfsCompression
Do not compress files with filesystem compression when copying or extracting content
from an archive unless the content is already compressed with filesystem compression.
This flag is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later.
.Fl Fl nohfsCompression
is the default.
.It Fl Fl preserveHFSCompression
When copying files to an HFS+ or APFS volume that supports filesystem compression, ditto will
preserve the compression of any source files that were using filesystem compression.
This flag is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later.
.Fl Fl preserveHFSCompression
is the default.
.It Fl Fl nopreserveHFSCompression
Do not preserve filesystem compression when copying files that are already compressed with
filesystem compression. This is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later.
.It Fl Fl sequesterRsrc
When creating a PKZip archive, preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data
in the subdirectory __MACOSX.  PKZip extraction will automatically find
these resources.
.It Fl Fl zlibCompressionLevel Ar num
Sets the compression level to use when creating a PKZip archive. The compression
level can be set from 0 to 9, where 0 represents no compression, and 9
represents optimal (slowest) compression. By default, ditto will use the default compression
level as defined by zlib.
.It Fl Fl password
When extracting a password-encrypted ZIP archive, you must specify --password to allow ditto
to prompt for a password to use to extract the contents of the file. If this option is not
provided, and a password-encrypted file is encountered, ditto will emit an error message.
.It Fl Fl persistRootless
If a file being replaced has the SF_RESTRICTED flag or the com.apple.rootless extended
attribute set, retain it even if the source file may not have had the same flag or attribute.
.It Fl Fl nopersistRootless
Do not persist the SF_RESTRICTED flag or the com.apple.rootless extended
attribute for files being replaced.
.It Fl Fl nonAtomicCopies
Do not perform atomic copies when replacing existing files. By default
.Nm
will atomically swap new files into place when completing a copy.
.It Fl Fl segmentLargeFiles
When copying files to a CPIO archive, segment files larger than 8 gigabytes
into multiple entries.
.It Fl Fl keepBinaries
When copying files
.Nm
will set aside the original Mach-O binary when it is being replaced.
The file name will be changed to a random number preceeded by the prefix .BC.T_
.It Fl Fl keepBinariesList Ar path
When
.Nm
keeps binary files it will record the location of the kept file in the file
at the specified path.
.It Fl Fl keepBinariesPattern Ar regex
Keep any regular file that matches the specified regular expression. Note that this
file must not be a Mach-O binary.
.It Fl Fl lang Ar lang
When copying files with an index bom specified via
.Fl b
option the user can specify language variants to filter from the index bom.
By default
.Nm
will create a new index bom at /tmp/ditto.XXXXX representing the filtered contents.
The user can direct the output bom via the
.Fl o
flag.
.It Fl Fl outBom Ar bom
Specify an explicit path for the output bom.
This bom will only be created if the user specified the
.Fl o
flag or the
.Fl l
flags.
.It Fl Fl option Ar key=value
Specify an arbitrary key value pair to be passed to the copier.
The value can be a string, boolean, or integer.
Booleans can be specified as 'true', 'false', 'yes', or 'no'.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The command:
.Dl ditto src_directory dst_directory
copies the contents of src_directory into dst_directory, creating
dst_directory if it does not already exist.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl ditto src_directory dir/dst_directory
copies the contents of src_directory into dir/dst_directory, creating
dir and dst_directory if they don't already exist.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl ditto src-1 ... src-n dst_directory
copies the contents of all of the src directories into dst_directory,
creating dst_directory if it does not already exist.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl ditto --arch ppc universal_file thin_file
copies the contents of universal_file into thin_file, thinning executable
code to ppc-only on the fly.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl ditto -c --norsrc Scripts -|ssh rhost ditto -x --norsrc - ./Scripts
copies Scripts, skipping any resources or meta-data, to rhost.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl pax -f archive.cpio
will list the files in the CPIO archive archive.cpio.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl pax -zf archive.cpgz
will list the files in the compressed CPIO archive archive.cpgz.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl ditto -c -k --sequesterRsrc --keepParent src_directory archive.zip
will create a PKZip archive similarly to the Finder's Compress functionality.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl unzip -l archive.zip
will list the files in the PKZip archive archive.zip.
.Sh "ERRORS"
.Nm
returns 0 if everything is copied, otherwise non-zero.
.Nm
almost never gives up, preferring to report errors along the way.
Diagnostic messages will be printed to standard error.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width DITTOKEEPBINARIESPATTERN
.It Ev DITTOABORT
If the environment variable
.Ev DITTOABORT
is set,
.Nm
will call
.Xr abort 3
if it encounters a fatal error.
.It Ev DITTONORSRC
If
.Ev DITTONORSRC
is set but
.Fl Fl rsrc Ns ,
.Fl Fl extattr Ns ,
and
.Fl Fl acl
are not specified,
.Nm
will not preserve those additional types of metadata.
.It Ev DITTOKEEPBINARIESPATTERN
If the environment variable
.Ev DITTOKEEPBINARIESPATTERN
is set,
.Nm
will keep files that match the regular expression.
This matches the behavior of
.Fl Fl keepBinariesPattern
.It Ev DITTOKEEPBINARIESDIR
By default,
.Nm
will keep the original file adjacent to its replacement.
If the environment variable
.Ev DITTOKEEPBINARIESDIR
is set,
.Nm
will move kept files into the specified directory path.
The files will be renamed to a random UUID and the directory
will be kept balanced.
.It Ev DITTO_TEST_OPTIONS
If
.Ev DITTO_TEST_OPTIONS
is set to 1
.Nm
will print the parameters to be passed to BOMCopierCopyWithOptions
for each source and destination pair, including the contents of the options
dictionary. It will then exit without performing any copy operation.
.El
.Sh "BUGS"
.Nm
doesn't copy directories into directories in the same way as
.Xr cp 1 Ns .
In particular,
.Dl ditto foo bar
will copy the contents of foo into bar, whereas
.Dl cp -r foo bar
copies foo itself into bar. Though this is not a bug, some may
consider this bug-like behavior.
.Fl Fl keepParent
for non-archive copies will eventually alleviate this problem.
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Ns Xr bom 5 ,
.Ns Xr lsbom 8 ,
.Ns Xr mkbom 8 ,
.Ns Xr cpio 1 ,
.Ns Xr zip 1 ,
.Ns Xr gzip 1 ,
.Ns Xr bzip2 1 ,
.Ns Xr tar 1 .
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in Mac OS X (10.0)
