.\"-
.\" File:       siritts.1
.\"	Project:    SiriTTS - Unified framework for Siri Text to Speech services
.\" Contact:    siri-speech-tts@group.apple.com
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2019-2022 Apple, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd May 5, 2022
.Dt SIRITTS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm siritts
.Nd Command line interface to Siri Text to Speech services
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar subcommand Op options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility provides access to a variety of services related to the Siri Text to Speech system, and, to a limited extent, Apple's other Text-to-Speech engines (MacinTalk, Polyglot, Gryphon).
.Sh SYNTHESIS

.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Nm Ar speak [ Fl Fl text | Fl t ] [ Fl Fl language | Fl l ] [ Fl Fl name | Fl n ] ...
Speak a text with the named voice and/or the specified language.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl l , Fl Fl language
language
.It Fl t , Fl Fl text
text
.It Fl n , Fl Fl name
voice name, e.g. nora
.It Fl p , Fl Fl private
Indicate if this request is privacy sensitive. When set, only device synthesis will be used. Otherwise, synthesis is allowed to happen on server side.
.It Fl o , Fl Fl output-file
If set, audio will be written to the output file instead of being played loud.
.El

.Sh ASSET MANAGEMENT

The
.Nm Ar asset
subcommand manages voice and language resource assets, providing a variety of second level subcommands, each with their own set of options (as well as some
.Sx COMMON ASSET OPTIONS
discussed below):
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Nm Ar asset list [ Fl v ] [ Fl Fl nonlocal | Fl a ] [ Fl Fl tab ] Ar asset ...
List asset(s) matching criteria as described in
.Sx ASSET SELECTION .
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl Fl nonlocal
By default we list locally available assets only. With this option, lists assets that are
.Em not
locally available.
.It Fl a , Fl Fl all
lists all assets, regardless of availability.
.It Fl Fl tab
by default, output is formatted in aligned columns, with this option, output in tab separated columns instead, for ease of
machine and screen reader processing.
.El
.It Nm Ar asset describe [ Fl v ] [ Fl Fl nonlocal | Fl a | Fl p ] Ar asset ...
Print verbose information for asset(s) matching criteria as described in
.Sx ASSET SELECTION .
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl Fl nonlocal
By default we list locally available assets only. With this option, lists assets that are
.Em not
locally available.
.It Fl a , Fl Fl all
lists all assets, regardless of availability.
.It Fl p , Fl Fl path
only print path to asset bundle. This option only makes sense for locally available assets.
.El
.It Nm Ar asset download [ Fl v ] [ Fl Fl clobber ] Ar asset ...
Download nonlocal asset(s) matching criteria as described in
.Sx ASSET SELECTION .
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl Fl clobber
Allow more than 3 assets to be downloaded at once.
.El
.It Nm Ar asset purge [ Fl v ] [ Fl Fl clobber ] [ Fl Fl immediately] Ar asset ...
Purge local asset(s) matching criteria as described in
.Sx ASSET SELECTION .
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl Fl clobber
Allow more than 3 assets to be purged at once.
.It Fl Fl immediately
Recover space immediately instead of leaving the decision to the OS (a distinction mainly relevant to for Turi Trial assets).
.El
.It Nm Ar asset serve Op Fl r Ar root-directory Xo
.Op Fl p Ar port | Fl
.Xc
Create an asset server (operating a regular HTTP protocol), serving previously staged assets.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl r Ar root-directory , Fl Fl root Ar root-directory
Specifies the directory containing the assets. Defaults to a temporary directory.
.It Fl Fl stdio
Listens for requests on standard input.
.It Fl p Ar port , Fl Fl port Ar port
Listens to the specified port. Defaults to listening on a randomly chosen port.
.El
.Pp
On the machine on which the server runs, this will also temporarily set the server URLs of the assets present in
.Ar root-directory
to the listening address, and will restore the URLs to their default setting if
.Nm
is quit with
.Dv SIGINT
(Control-C). If you quit with any other method, you'll have to manually restore with
.Pp
.Dl sudo defaults delete com.apple.MobileAssets
.Pp
If you want to connect from a different machine, follow the instructions printed by the command.
.It Nm Ar asset set-server Po Fl Fl url Ar server-url | Xo
.Fl Fl production | Fl Fl livability | Fl Fl staging | Fl Fl reset Pc
.Op Fl Fl source Ar source
.Xc Ar asset ...
Override the asset server to use for the specified assets (or all assets if omitted).
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl Fl url Ar server-url
Use an explicitly defined server URL (e.g. for a local mirror).
.Ar server-url
can use some shortcuts such as
.Ar livability/AzulE
or
.Ar staging/Speedwagon9M5494 .
.It Fl Fl production
Use production asset server.
.It Fl Fl livability
Use livability asset server.
.It Fl Fl staging
Use staging asset server.
.It Fl Fl reset
Reset to default asset server.
.It Fl s Ar source , Fl Fl source Ar source
Specify the download source (mobile or trial)
.El
.It Nm Ar asset show-server Xo
.Op Fl Fl verbose
.Op Fl Fl source Ar source
.Ar asset ...
.Xc
Show the asset server(s) currently used for the specified assets (or all assets if omitted).
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl s Ar source , Fl Fl source Ar source
Specify the download source (mobile or trial)
.It Fl v , Fl Fl verbose
List full URLs for production, livability, and staging servers.
.El
.It Nm Ar asset stage Op Fl o Ar root-directory Xo
.Ar path ...
.Xc
Prepare assets to be served by compressing them, computing hashes for them, and compressing them.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl o Ar root-directory , Fl Fl output Ar root-directory
Specify the directory in which the assets are staged. Defaults to the same temporary directory used by
.Nm
.Ar serve .
.It Ar path ...
Directories of original assets. Each asset type should be represented by only one
.Ar path
argument.
.El
.El
.Sh COMMON ASSET OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl v , Fl Fl verbose
By default,
.Nm
suppresses the output that e.g. the
.Nm MobileAsset
framework prints to the console. If this option is given, this output is not suppressed.
Many commands also print further diagnostics if this option is given.
.Sh ASSET SELECTION
The
.Ar list , Ar download ,
and
.Ar purge
subcommands of
.Nm
require specifying one or several assets to apply to. This is done with the following criteria:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl n Ar name(s) , Fl Fl name Ar name(s)
Specify the name(s) we're interested in. This argument can take glob patterns.
.It Fl L Ar language(s) , Fl Fl language Ar language(s)
Specify the language(s) we're interested in. This argument may be given multiple times, or languages
can be specified as a comma separated list.
.It Fl Fl male , Fl Fl female , Fl Fl neutral , Fl Fl unspecified
Specify the gender(s) we're interested in.
.It Fl t Ar technology(s) , Fl Fl technology Ar technology(s)
Specify the technology(s) we're interested in among
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar vocalizer
.It Ar custom
.It Ar macintalk
.It Ar gryphon
.It Ar neural
.El
.It Fl q Ar quality(s) , Fl Fl quality Ar quality(s)
Specify the quality(s) we're interested in among
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar compact
.It Ar premium
.It Ar premiumhigh
.It Ar beta
.El
.It Fl 1 , Fl Fl best
Only use the top match among the assets found.
.It Fl Fl obsolete
By default, we only list the newest version of an asset. With this option, we list
obsolete versions instead.
.It Fl s Ar source(s) , Fl Fl source Ar source(s)
Specifies the asset source(s) of interest among
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar legacy
macOS voices that were preinstalled or downloaded using software update.
.It Ar mobile
Assets downloaded using Mobile Assets.
.It Ar trial
Assets downloaded using Turi Trial.
.It Ar adhoc
Assets installed on the device for testing purposes.
.It Ar preinstalled
Voices preinstalled on HomePods for initial setup.
.El
.It Ar gryphon , Ar custom , Ar macintalk , Ar combined , Ar vocalizer , Ar resources , Ar asset-id
Specify the asset type(s) to use.
.It Ar voices
Use all voice asset types (this is the default).
.It Ar all
Use all predefined asset types (voices and resources).
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
siritts speak -n Aaron --text "Mr. Watson - Come here - I want to see you."

To run a temporary asset server serving VoiceResources from a checkout of the
.Nm git
repo, run:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
siritts asset stage ~/Work/VoiceServicesVoiceResource
siritts asset serve
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr assettool 1
.Sh STANDARDS
You're kidding, right?
