.\" Copyright (c) 2017-2021 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\"
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\"
.\"     @(#)APFSUserAgent.8
.Dd September 22, 2021
.Dt APFSUSERAGENT 8
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm APFSUserAgent
.Nd APFS new container observer
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
watches for IOKit notifications about new APFS containers appearing, and about volume hash mismatch.
.Pp
If
.Nm
finds a new container with an encrypted volume, it will pop up a DiskUnlock dialog to ask the user for volume unlock password.
.Pp
The
.Nm
can display the following notifications:
.br
\fBIncompatible Features\fP - Mounting the device (volume or container) was rejected because it uses features that are not supported by the current version of macOS. Updating to a newer version of macOS may allow the device to mount.
.br
\fBVolume Hash Mismatch\fP - The cryptographic integrity of the volume is not valid. Reinstalling macOS on this volume will fix its integrity.
.Pp
The
.Nm
uses the
.Ar defaults
bundle \fBcom.apple.APFSUserAgent\fP in order to control whether or not to pop notifications or automatically ask the user to unlock an encrypted volume.
.br
The settings are controlled globally - for all devices, or locally - for a specific volume or container, identified by its UUID.
In the
.Ar defaults
dictionary, the key is the action that the user would like to mute, and the value is the date to mute up to.
.Nm
Will use the system timezone.
.Pp
The values in the
.Ar defaults
dictionary could be updated using the
.Ar defaults
cli as well.
.Sh KEYS
The bundle keys are as follows:
.Bl -hang -offset indent
.It \fBIncompatibleFeatures\fP
Mute notifications about either a volume or a container that has features which are not supported with the current running OS.
.Nm
supports only setting this property globally.
.br
.It \fBHashMismatch\fP
Mute notification about volume hash mismatch.
.br
.It \fBDontUnlockVolume\fP
Disable the DiskUnlock dialog to ask the user for volume unlock password.
.br
.It \fBMuteAllNotifications\fP
Mute all APFS notifications. Does not include the dialog to unlock a volume.
.Sh EXAMPLE
The following setting mutes the
.Ar HashMismatch
notification only for the volume with UUID \fBF55502F4-1A9E-4B48-8A11-106E1226AE2F\fP up to 2021-08-18 15:10:31, and mutes the
.Ar IncompatibleFeatures
notification for any device, up to 2021-08-18 15:09:43
.Pp
~ % defaults read com.apple.APFSUserAgent
.br
{
.br
    "F55502F4-1A9E-4B48-8A11-106E1226AE2F" =     {
.br
        HashMismatch = "2021-08-18 15:10:31";
.br
    };
.br
    IncompatibleFeatures = "2021-08-18 15:09:43";
.br
}
.br
~ %
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
always exits with 0.
.Sh SEE ALSO
defaults(1), apfsd(8), diskutil(8)
