.\" Copyright (c) 2020-2023 Apple Computer, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.Dd 9/22/20
.Dt networkQuality 8
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm networkQuality
.Nd Network quality testing tool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl chksv          \" [-chkpsv]
.Op Fl C Ar configuration URL \" [-C configuration URL]
.Op Fl f Ar force HTTP version \" [-f h1,h2,h3]
.Op Fl I Ar interface \" [-I interface]
.Op Fl r Ar host \" [-r host]
.Op Fl S Ar port \" [-S port]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
allows for measuring the different aspects of Network Quality, including:
.Pp
Maximal capacity (often described as speed)
.Pp
The responsiveness of the connection. Responsiveness measures the quality of your network by the number of roundtrips completed per minute (RPM) under working conditions. See
.Ar https://support.apple.com/kb/HT212313
.Pp
Other aspects of the connection that affect the quality of experience.
.Pp
NOTE: This tool will connect to the Internet to perform its tests. This will use data on your Internet service plan.
.Pp
For more details about the RPM score and the methodology around the testing, see
.Ar https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-cpaasch-ippm-responsiveness/
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl C Ar configuration URL/path
Use custom configuration URL or path (with scheme file://). See
.Ar https://github.com/network-quality/server
for server implementation details.
.It Fl f Ar <option[,<option>,...]>
Force usage of a specific protocol selection:
.br
   h1: To enforce HTTP/1.1
.br
   h2: To enforce HTTP/2
.br
   h3: To enforce HTTP/3 (QUIC)
.br
   L4S: To force-enable L4S
.br
   noL4S: To force-disable L4S
.It Fl I Ar interface
Bind test to interface (e.g., en0, pdp_ip0,...)
.Pp
If not specified, the default interface will be used.
.It Fl r Ar host
Connect to host or IP, overriding DNS for initial config request
.It Fl S Ar port
Create a networkQuality server-instance running locally on the specified port.
It will display the URL of the config-file that can be passed on to a client-instance
with option -C. Note that the certificate is self-signed and thus option -k needs
to be used on the client-instance.
.It Fl c
Produce computer-readable output.
.It Fl h
Show help
.It Fl k
Disable verification of the server identity via TLS.
.It Fl p
Use iCloud Private Relay.
.It Fl s
Run tests sequentially instead of parallel upload/download.
.It Fl v
Verbose output.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .El
.Sh COMPUTER OUTPUT FIELD DESCRIPTION
The -c option will produce JSON output with the following fields:
.Bl -tag -width lud_foreign_dl_h2_req_resp
.It Ft base_rt
The calculated idle latency of the test run (in milliseconds).
.It Ft dl_flows
Number of download flows initiated.
.It Ft dl_responsiveness
The downlink responsiveness score (in RPM)
.Pp
(only available when -s is specified).
.It Ft dl_throughput
The measured downlink throughput (in bytes per second).
.It Ft end_date
Time when test run was completed (in local time).
.It Ft il_h2_req_resp
The idle-latency Request/Response times for HTTP/2 (in milliseconds).
.It Ft il_tcp_handshake_443
The idle-latency TCP-handshake times (in milliseconds).
.It Ft il_tls_handshake
The idle-latency TLS-handshake times (in milliseconds).
.It Ft interface_name
Interface name in which the test ran against.
.It Ft lud_foreign_dl_h2_req_resp
Download latency-under-load request/response times for HTTP/2 (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is specified).
.It Ft lud_foreign_dl_tcp_handshake_443
Download latency-under-load for for TCP-handshake times (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is specified).
.It Ft lud_foreign_dl_tls_handshake
Download latency-under-load for for TLS-handshake times (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is specified).
.It Ft lud_foreign_h2_req_resp
Combined upload/download latency-under-load request/response times for HTTP/2 (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is not specified).
.It Ft lud_foreign_tcp_handshake_443
Combined upload/download latency-under-load for for TCP-handshake times (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is not specified).
.It Ft lud_foreign_tls_handshake
Combined foreign upload/download latency-under-load for for TLS-handshake times (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is not specified).
.It Ft lud_foreign_ul_h2_req_resp
Foreign upload latency-under-load request/response times for HTTP/2 (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is specified).
.It Ft lud_foreign_ul_tcp_handshake_443
Foreign upload latency-under-load for for TCP-handshake times (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is specified).
.It Ft lud_foreign_ul_tls_handshake
Upload latency-under-load for for TLS-handshake times (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is specified).
.It Ft lud_self_dl_h2_req_resp
Self download latency-under-load request/response times for HTTP/2 (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is specified).
.It Ft lud_self_h2_req_resp
Combined self upload/download latency-under-load request/response times for HTTP/2 (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is not specified).
.It Ft lud_self_ul_h2_req_resp
Self upload latency-under-load request/response times for HTTP/2 (in milliseconds).
.Pp
(only available when -s is specified).
.It Ft os_version
The version of the OS the test was run on.
.It Ft responsiveness
The responsiveness score (in RPM)
.Pp
(the combined value if -c is not specified).
.It Ft start_date
Time when test run was started (in local time).
.It Ft ul_flows
Number of upload flows created.
.It Ft ul_responsiveness
The uplink responsiveness score (in RPM)
.Pp
(only available when -s is specified).
.It Ft ul_throughput
The measured uplink throughput (in bytes per second).

.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr ping 8 ,
.Xr traceroute 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
