.\""Copyright (c) 2022 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SHAZAM-SIGNATURE 1
.Os

.Sh NAME
.Nm shazam signature
.Nd Create shazam signature files from media

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl \-input Ar input
.Op Fl \-output Ar output

.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
This command is used for manipulating and generating shazam signatures from a media input. The input can either be audio, video or a shazam signature. If the input is an audio file, the audio is converted into a shazam signature and saved to a specified output location. If the input is a video file, the video file has its audio extracted and converted to a shazam signature file. The combination of the start, duration and stride options can be used to remove unwanted audio at the beginning and slice the generated signature into smaller signatures. The stride defines the separation, in seconds, between consecutive slices. If the stride is smaller than the duration the slices will overlap. A starting offset can be applied to skip unwanted audio at the begining of the signature. The output must be a directory. If none is specified the current one will be used.

.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent

.It Fl i,--input Ar input
Path to an audio or video file to generate a shazam signature from.

.It Fl o,--start Ar start
Apply a starting offset, in seconds, to skip unwanted audio at the beginning of the signature.

.It Fl o,--duration Ar duration
Duration, in seconds, for each of the sliced signatures.

.It Fl o,--stride Ar stride
Separation, in seconds, between consecutive slices.

.It Fl o,--output Ar output
Path to save the new shazam signature file. If
.Ar output
is a directory, the shazam signature is created in that directory with the same name as the
.Ar input
file. If
.Ar output
is not specified, the shazam signature is saved in the current working directory with the same name as the
.Ar input
file.

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Sy shazam-custom-catalog-create(1), shazam-custom-catalog-update(1), shazam-custom-catalog-export(1), shazam-custom-catalog-display(1), shazam-custom-catalog-remove(1)

.Sh NOTES
.Bl -enum
.It
ShazamKit Documentation
.Bd -literal -compact
https://developer.apple.com/shazamkit
.El
