.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.Dd 22 February, 2022
.Dt eslogger 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm eslogger
.Nd log Endpoint Security events
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op \--oslog
.Op \--format \fIformat\fR
.Op \--oslog-subsystem \fIsubsystem\fR
.Op \--oslog-category \fIcategory\fR
\fIevent\fR [...]
.Nm
\--list-events
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
interfaces with \fBEndpoint Security\fR to log events to standard output or to the unified logging system.
.Pp
Like all \fBEndpoint Security\fR clients,
.Nm
must be run as super-user and requires the responsible process to have TCC Full Disk Access authorization.
See \fBTCC AUTHORIZATION\fR below.
To avoid feedback loops when filtering output using shell pipelines,
.Nm
automatically suppresses events for all processes that are part of its process group.
.Pp
.Nm
is not intended to be used by applications.
It is not meant provide the same functionality, performance and schema stability as natively interfacing with the \fBEndpoint Security\fR API does.
It cannot provide the integrity protection granted to System Extensions.
Applications should continue to interface with
.Xr EndpointSecurity 7
natively.
.Pp
.Em IMPORTANT :
.Nm
is
.Em NOT
API in any sense.  Do
.Em NOT
rely on the structure or information emitted for
.Em ANY
reason.  It may change from release to release without warning.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "--oslog-subsystem subsystem" -indent
.It \fB\--format\fR \fIformat\fR
Log format to use.  Default, and the only format currently supported, is \fBjson\fR.  See \fBFORMATS\fR below.
.It \fB\--list-events\fR
List supported events on standard output and exit.
.It \fB\--oslog\fR
Emit event data to the unified logging system instead of to standard output.
See
.Xr log 1
on configuring and using the unified logging system.
The default subsystem and category are configured for oversize messages, resulting in a message size limit of 32k.
Larger messages will be truncated.
.It \fB\--oslog-subsystem\fR \fIsubsystem\fR
Log subsystem to use with \fB--oslog\fR.  Default is \fBcom.apple.eslogger\fR.
Changing the subsystem will make the default log profile ineffective, resulting in a message size limit of 1k.
Configuring \fBsubsystem\fR for oversize messages is recommended when using \fB--oslog-subsystem\fR.
.It \fB\--oslog-category\fR \fIcategory\fR
Log category to use with \fB--oslog\fR.  Default is \fBevents\fR.
Changing the subsystem will make the default log profile ineffective, resulting in a message size limit of 1k.
Configuring \fBcategory\fR for oversize messages is recommended when using \fB--oslog-category\fR.
.Nm
uses the \fBmain\fR category for operational logging, such as fatal errors.
.Sh EVENTS
Events are specified by their short name, such as \fBexec\fR or \fBexit\fR.
Use \fB--list-events\fR to list the currently supported events by their short name.
.Nm
supports all notify events that \fBEndpointSecurity\fR supports.
By design,
.Nm
does not support any auth events.
.Pp
Some fields available in native \fBEndpoint Security\fR API clients are not available in
.Nm .
Currently, the only such field is \fBes_token_t state\fR part of \fBes_thread_state_t\fR, which is used only in \fBremote_thread_create\fR events.
.Sh FORMATS
The only supported format for event data is \fBjson\fR, which is either JSON Lines, when writing to standard output, or JSON, when writing to the unified logging system.
While no formal schema is provided, the data is modelled after \fBes_message_t\fR as provided by
.Xr EndpointSecurity 7 .
Semantics, field names and optionality corresponds to the C counterparts as documented in the
.Xr libEndpointSecurity 3
header documentation in the SDK.
A \fBschema_version\fR is provided with every event.
No schema stability guarantees are being made across \fBschema_version\fR changes.
New events may be added without bumping \fBschema_version\fR.
\fBschema_version\fR is specific to the JSON representation of events.
\fBschema_version\fR is distinct from the \fBversion\fR field, which denotes the message version as emitted by
.Xr EndpointSecurity 7 .
.Sh EXAMPLES
Subscribe to process lifecycle events and append event data to a file:
.Pp
.Dl % sudo eslogger exec fork exit >>/tmp/proc.log
.Pp
Subscribe to screensharing events and write event data to the unified logging system with the default subsystem and category:
.Pp
.Dl % sudo eslogger --oslog screensharing_attach screensharing_detach
.Pp
List available events:
.Pp
.Dl % eslogger --list-events
.Pp
Postprocess the output in a shell pipeline with jq:
.Pp
.Dl % sudo eslogger exec | jq -r 'select(.process.executable.path == \E"/bin/zsh")|\E"\\\(.process.audit_token.pid): \\\(.process.executable.path) -> \\\(.event.exec.target.executable.path)"'
.Pp
.Sh TCC AUTHORIZATION
.Nm
requires the responsible process to have been authorized for Full Disk Access.
For running
.Nm
in an SSH session, enable "Allow full disk access for remote users" in System Preferences > Sharing > Remote Login.
Running
.Nm
from an app, including \fBTerminal.app\fR or a third-party terminal emulator, requires the respective app to be authorized for Full Disk Access in
System Preferences > Security & Privacy > Privacy > Full Disk Access.
Running
.Nm
as a launch daemon requires
.Nm
itself to be authorized for Full Disk Access in
System Preferences > Security & Privacy > Privacy > Full Disk Access.
MDM servers can grant Full Disk Access authorization using the Privacy Preferences Policy Control payload, identified by
payload type \fBcom.apple.TCC.configuration-profile-policy\fR, and its service dictionary key \fBSystemPolicyAllFiles\fR.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr log 1 ,
.Xr mdmclient 1 ,
.Xr libEndpointSecurity 3 ,
.Xr EndpointSecurity 7 .
