.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 2/7/17               \" DATE 
.Dt tethered-caching 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os "macOS"
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm tethered-caching
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" .Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" .Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd control tethered caching
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op -b
.Op -n 192.168.(1-254).0
.Nm
.Ar -k
.Nm
.Ar -l
.Nm
.Ar -s
.Op -v
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
In its first form,
.Nm
creates a tethered network,
starts a caching service,
and prepares all tethered iOS devices to use that network and caching service.
The caching service in macOS Server is configured and started if macOS Server is installed on this computer;
otherwise the tethered-caching service is configured and started.
.Nm
then monitors the status of tethered caching until it is interrupted (via Control+c or SIGTERM),
at which point it turns tethered caching off.
.Nm
prevents the computer from idle-sleeping until it exits.
.Pp
The
.Fl b
option disables the monitoring and idle-sleep prevention.
Tethered caching will run until turned off by running:
.Nm
.Ar -k .
.Pp
The
.Fl n
option specifies which subnet to use, instead of choosing an unused one
automatically.
.Pp
In its second form (-k),
.Nm
disables the tethered network and caching.
.Pp
In its third form (-l),
.Nm
displays its software license agreement.
.Pp
In its fourth form (-s),
.Nm
reports the status of tethering and caching.  The
.Fl v
option reports detailed status about the caching service.
.Sh REQUIREMENTS
The
.Nm
command requires administrator privileges.
All iOS devices must have iOS 10.3 or later installed.
The Mac must have macOS 10.12.4 or later installed.
The Mac must be connected to the Internet via wired Ethernet.
A portable Mac should be plugged in to a power source, because
.Nm
prevents it from going to sleep.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Start the tethered-caching service:
.Dl sudo tethered-caching
.Pp
Start the tethered-caching service and assign a specific network range to the iOS devices:
.Dl sudo tethered-caching -n 192.168.5.0
.Pp
View tethered-caching service configuration data and downloads:
.Dl sudo tethered-caching -s
.Pp
To stop the tethered-caching service, do one of the following:
.Dl sudo tethered-caching -k
.Dl Press Control+c
.Dl Quit Terminal
.Sh USAGE
.Bl -enum -compact
.It
Connect the Mac to one of the following via USB:
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
a cart capable of connecting and storing iOS devices
.It
a USB hub capable of connecting several iOS devices
.El
.It
If using a cart or USB hub, connect all iOS devices.
.It
Start the tethered-caching service.
.El
The tethered-caching service is now active.
If you are using a mobile device management (MDM) solution with your iOS devices, you can now use that solution to push content to the devices.
Depending on your Internet connection, caching updates and apps may take some time.
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Ns Xr AssetCache 8 ,
.Ns Xr AssetCacheActivatorUtil 8 ,
.Ns Xr AssetCacheLocatorUtil 8 ,
.Ns Xr AssetCacheTetheratorUtil 8
.Sh HISTORY
.Ss "tethered-caching service"
macOS 10.12.4 contains a new service that enables a Mac to cache
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
iOS updates
.It
iOS apps
.It
Books
.It
iCloud content
.El
To learn more about what types of iOS content the caching service supports, see the Apple Support article
https://support.apple.com/HT204675 .
.Pp
Once the tethered-caching service is enabled,
iOS devices connected to the Mac via USB can have content installed via mobile device management (MDM)
without each device needing to connect to Apple's servers.
The content is downloaded once to the Mac and cached before it is delivered over USB to each of the connected iOS devices for installation.
This saves time, local Wi-Fi, and bandwidth when using a cart or USB hub and updating several devices at once,
compared to each device updating individually over Wi-Fi.
It is particularly useful for installing many large apps while preparing devices for the beginning of a new semester or school year.
.Ss "macOS Server caching service"
macOS Server also has a caching service which can be configured for more granular control.
However, both services cannot be active at the same time.
When you download the Server app in the /Applications folder for the caching service, the tethered caching service will automatically stop.
In order to start using the caching service, you must also configure the Server app with administrator privileges before turning it on.
If you would like to use the tethered caching service once again, you must first move the Server app to the Trash.
.Pp
The tethered-caching service in macOS 10.12.4 and the caching service in macOS Server use different binaries and different configuration files.
.Pp
To learn more about the caching service in macOS Server, see https://help.apple.com/serverapp/mac/ and select
.Em "Speed Up App Store and iCloud downloads"
from the topic list.
