.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 15/02/16               \" DATE 
.Dt bioutil 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm bioutil
.Nd tool for viewing/changing biometrics configuration and listing/deleting enrolled biometric templates
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
{-r | -w [-f { 0 | 1 }] [-u { 0 | 1 }] [-a { 0 | 1 }] [-o <seconds>] | [--<X>timeout <seconds>]} | [-c] | [-p] | [-d <uid>] [-s]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
provides the possibility of viewing and changing biometrics configuration, both system-wide and user-specific. It also allows listing and deleting enrolled biometric templates.
.Sh OPTIONS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl r, -read          \"-a flag as a list item
Read biometrics configuration.
.It Fl w, -write
Write biometrics configuration.
.It Fl s, -system
Indicates that system-wide configuration is to be read/written (user-specific configuration is the default) or that a system-wide list/delete operation is to be performed.
.It Fl f, -function
Enables (1) or disables (0) overall biometrics functionality (system-wide configuration only).
.It Fl u, -unlock
Enables (1) or disables (0) biometrics for unlock.
.It Fl a, -applepay
Enables (1) or disables (0) biometrics for ApplePay (user-specific configuration only).
.It Fl o, -timeout
Sets biometric timeout (in seconds, system-wide configuration only). Deprecated, please use
.Fl -btimeout
instead.
.It Fl -btimeout
Sets biometric timeout (in seconds, system-wide configuration only).
.It Fl -mtimeout
Sets match timeout (in seconds, system-wide configuration only).
.It Fl -ptimeout
Sets passcode input timeout (in seconds, system-wide configuration only).
.It Fl c, -count
Provides number of enrolled biometric templates of the current user or of all users (when run with -s as an administrator)
.It Fl p, -purge
Deletes all enrolled biometric templates of the current user or of all users (when run with -s as an administrator)
.It Fl d, -delete
Deletes all enrolled biometric templates of the user with given user ID (must be run as an administrator)
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh EXAMPLES             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Nm Fl r
Reads biometrics configuration for the current user.
.It Nm Fl r Fl s
Reads system-wide biometrics configuration.
.It Nm Fl w Fl u Ar 1
Enables biometrics for unlock for the current user.
.It Ic sudo Nm Fl w Fl s Fl u Ar 0
Disables biometrics for unlock for the whole system.
.It Ic sudo Nm Fl w Fl s Fl -btimeout Ar 86400
Sets biometric timeout to 24h.
.It Nm Fl c
Prints the number of enrolled biometric templates of the current user.
.It Nm Fl p
Deletes all enrolled biometric templates of the current user.
.It Ic sudo Nm Fl c Fl s
Prints numbers of enrolled biometric templates of all enrolled users.
.It Ic sudo Nm Fl p Fl s
Deletes all biometric templates from the system.
.It Ic sudo Nm Fl s Fl d Ar 501
Deletes all biometric templates of user 501.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
