.Dd June 29, 2020
.Dt CRYPTEXCTL-GENERATE-TRUST-CACHE 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm cryptexctl
generate-trust-cache
.Nd Generate a trust cache from a directory of Mach-O files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
generate-trust-cache
.Oo
.Fl o | Fl -output-file
.Ar OUTPUT-FILE
.Oc
.Oo
.Fl t | -type
.Aq Ar static|loadable|development
.Oc
.Oo
.Fl b | Fl -base-trust-cache
.Ar TRUST-CACHE-PATH
.Oc
.Ar DIRECTORY-PATH
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Generate a trust cache from the mach object files
.Pq see Xr Mach-O 5
in the directory hierarchy given by
.Ar DIRECTORY-PATH .
Each mach object, regardles of whether it is an executable,
bundle, dylib, or dylib shared cache, is inspected for a valid code directory.
If found, the code directory is hashed, and the resulting hash is
added to the trust cache.
If the mach object has no code signature, it is impossible to add
it to the trust cache, and it is ignored.
.Pp
If a fat mach file is encountered, each slice is examined with the
above logic.
.Pp
The implementation expects well-formed mach objects, whose load command
counts are accurate, and will not attempt to work around poorly-formed
inputs just for the sake of a single user's tooling.
.\" Who would do such a thing? Despicable...
.Sh OPTIONS
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl o | -output-file Ar OUTPUT-FILE
The file to which the trust cache should be written, will be replaced
if it already exists
.Bo
default: a file named
.Pa trustcache
in the current working direcory.
.Bc
.It Fl t | -type Aq Ar static|loadable|development
The type of trust cache to produce. Valid types are:
.Bl -inset
.It Em static
- a static trust cache, of which there may only be one on a given device.
This option is generally not useful, but is included for completeness.
.It Em loadable
- a trust cache which may be loaded at runtime and persisted on the device
.It Em development
- a trust cache which may only be loaded on devices with development fusing
while running a DEVELOPMENT iBoot
.El
.Pp
.Bq default: Ar loadable
.It Fl b | -base-trust-cache Ar TRUST-CACHE-PATH
The path to an existing trust cache of any type whose cdhashes should be
incorporated into the one being generated. This flag may be specified multiple
times.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr codesign 1
.Xr cryptexctl 1
.Xr cryptexctl-create 1
.Xr cryptexctl-dump-trust-cache 1
.Xr trustcachectl 1
.Xr Mach-O 5
.Sh HISTORY
Introduced in macOS 11.0
