.Dd 2 April, 2021
.Dt cryptexctl-create 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm cryptexctl create
.Nd create a cryptex from a disk image
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm cryptexctl create
.Op Fl -replace
.Fl -identifier Ar IDENTIFIER
.Fl -version Ar VERSION
.Fl -variant Ar VARIANT
.Ar PATH-TO-DMG
\" Host form...
.Nm cryptexctl create
.Op Fl -host-identity
.Op Fl -replace
.Fl -identifier Ar IDENTIFIER
.Fl -version Ar VERSION
.Ar PATH-TO-DMG
\" Long form...
.Nm cryptexctl create
.Op Fl -identity Ar IDENTITY-PLIST
.Op Fl -replace
.Op Fl -BORD Ar BOARD-ID
.Op Fl -CHIP Ar CHIP-ID
.Op Fl -SDOM Ar SDOM
.Fl -identifier Ar IDENTIFIER
.Fl -version Ar VERSION
.Fl -variant Ar VARIANT
.Ar PATH-TO-DMG
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm cryptexctl create
creates a new
.Xr cryptex 5
from a disk image.
The disk image must encapsulate an HFS+ or HFSX filesystem with a
hierarchy as described in
.Xr cryptex 5 .
The result will be a directory with a
.Qq cxbd
file name extension.
The cryptex bundle has the same structure with a restore bundle,
and has the following structure and assets:
.Bd -literal
    ./Restore
    ./Restore/BuildManifest.plist
    ./Restore/Cryptex
    ./Restore/Cryptex/<Cryptex Name>
    ./Restore/Cryptex/<Cryptex Name>/c411
    ./Restore/Cryptex/<Cryptex Name>/pdmg
    ./Restore/Cryptex/<Cryptex Name>/ltrs
    
.Ed
Together, these objects comprise the cryptex bundle. They are not
independently useful.
.Pp
In most cases the device identity will be retrieved by
.Nm cryptexctl create
from either the host, if the host is running a
.Xr cryptexd 8
daemon, or from a connected device
.Po
See the
.Fl -udid
option on the root
.Xr cryptexctl 1
command.
.Pc
.Pp
If the device cannot be connected directly the identity can be specified
on the command line directly.
.Sh OPTIONS
A list of options with their descriptions. See
.Sx DEVICE IDENTIFIERS
for the identity arguments.
.Pp
Required:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl i | Fl -identifier Ar IDENTIFIER
A reverse-ICANN identitifer for the cryptex
.It Fl v | Fl -version Ar VERSION
The CFBundleVersion-style version number for the cryptex
.It Fl V | Fl -variant Ar VARIANT
The name of the cryptex
.It Ar PATH-TO-DMG
The path to the disk image file from which the cryptex will be
created -- the disk image must encapsulate an HFS+ or HFSX file
system containing a
.Xr cryptex 5
filesystem hierarchy.
.El
.Pp
Optional:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl o | Fl -output-directory Ar OUTPUT-DIRECTORY
The directory to which the cryptex should be written. Upon successful
completion, this directory will contain a directory named for the given
.Ar IDENTIFIER ,
which will contain the cryptex's constituent personalized objects
.Bq default: the current working directory
.It Fl r | Fl -replace
Replace the cryptex in
.Ar OUTPUT-DIRECTORY
if it already exists. The old directory will be rename(2)ed into a temporary
directory rather than being deleted
outright.
.It Fl H | Fl -host-identity
Use the host's identity for the personalization; if specified all other
identifiers are ignored
.It Fl z | -research
Cryptex will be created as a research cryptex with the cpxd tag.
.El
.Sh DEVICE IDENTIFIERS
These tags can be retrieved from a device with
.Xr cryptexctl-identity 1
for offline personalization or retrieved automatically for the host or a
connected device.
.Pp
The following components comprise a host identity for cryptex creation.
For more information about these tags and the personalization process, see
.Xr cryptex-image4 7 .
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "CPRO" -compact
.It Sy BORD
The board identifier of the target device
.It Sy CHIP
The chip identifier of the target device
.It Sy SDOM
The security domain of the target device
.Bq default: 0x1
.Xr cryptexctl-nonce 1 .
.Bq default: all zeros
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag
.It Ev CRYPTEXCTL_UDID
Read by the base
.Xr cryptexctl 1
command to select the device on which to operate when the
.Fl -udid
option is not specified and there is no
.Xr cryptexd 8
daemon on the host. See
.Xr cryptexctl 1
for more information about
.Ev CRYPTEXCTL_UDID .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Create a cryptex bundle using host identity:
.Pp
.Dl $ cryptexctl create -i com.apple.cryptex-http -v 0.0.1 -V CryptexHTTP -H /path/to/cryptex-http.dmg
.Pp
Create a cryptex bundle and specify build identify on command line:
.Pp
.Dl $ cryptexctl create -i com.apple.cryptex-http -v 0.0.1 -V CryptexHTTP -B 0x4 -C 0x8030 -D 0x1 /path/to/cryptex-http.dmg
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cryptexctl 1 ,
.Xr cryptexctl-identity 1 ,
.Xr cryptexctl-personalize 1 ,
.Xr cryptexctl-install 1 ,
.Xr cryptexctl-nonce 1 ,
.Xr cryptex 5
.Sh HISTORY
Introduced in macOS 11.0
