.\""Copyright (c) 2022 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SHAZAM 1
.Os

.Sh NAME
.Nm shazam
.Nd A utility for ShazamKit

.Sh SYNOPSIS

.Nm
<subcommand>
.Op Fl \-help

.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility offers commands for creating signatures as well as processing custom catalogs to build better audio experiences with ShazamKit. Current operations supported for a custom catalog include:
.Bl -dash indent
.It
Creating a custom catalog from a signature asset file and csv of metadata.
.It
Updating an existing custom catalog with a signature asset file and csv of metadata.
.It
Exporting the signatures and meta data contents of a custom catalog file to disk.
.It
Removing a signature and/or media item entry from a custom catalog file.
.It
Displaying the contents of an existing custom catalog file.
.El

The latest ShazamKit documentation can be viewed at
.Nm https://developer.apple.com/shazamkit.

.Sh SHAZAM COMMANDS
The commands supported by
.Nm
are divided into Signature and Custom Catalog commands.

.Ss "Signature Commands"

.Bl -tag -width indent

.It Cm shazam signature
Generate a signature file from a media input. See
.Sy shazam-signature(1)
for more info.
.El

.Ss "Custom Catalog Commands"

.Bl -tag -width indent

.It Cm shazam custom-catalog create
Generate a custom catalog file from a signature asset file and a media items csv file. See
.Sy shazam-custom-catalog-create(1)
for more information.

.It Cm shazam custom-catalog display
Display the contents of a custom catalog file. See
.Sy shazam-custom-catalog-display(1)
for more information.

.It Cm shazam custom-catalog update
Update an existing custom catalog file with a signature asset file and a media items csv file. See
.Sy shazam-custom-catalog-update(1)
for more information.

.It Cm shazam custom-catalog export
Export the contents of a custom catalog file to disk. See
.Sy shazam-custom-catalog-export(1)
for more information.

.It Cm shazam custom-catalog remove
Remove a signature and/or media item entry from a custom catalog file. See
.Sy shazam-custom-catalog-remove(1)
for more information.

.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent

.It Cm -h, --help
Show help information about the command.

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Sy shazam-signature(1), shazam-custom-catalog-create(1), shazam-custom-catalog-update(1), shazam-custom-catalog-export(1), shazam-custom-catalog-display(1), shazam-custom-catalog-remove(1)

.Sh NOTES
.Bl -enum
.It
ShazamKit Documentation
.Bd -literal -compact
https://developer.apple.com/shazamkit
.El
