.Dd February 7th, 2023
.Dt SYSPOLICY_CHECK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm syspolicy_check
.Nd Check if macOS app is ready for notarization or distribution
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar notary-submission
.Ar path
.Op Fl -verbose
.Op --json
.Nm
.Ar distribution
.Ar path
.Op Fl -verbose
.Op --json
.Nm
.Ar [notary-submission | distribution]
.Ar --help
      
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to check whether macOS application bundles are ready for upload
to the Apple notary service, or ready for distribution to users outside
of the Mac App Store.
.Pp
.Nm
combines checks from multiple parts of macOS, including the frameworks and
subsystems exposed by the existing
.Nm codesign,
.Nm spctl,
and
.Nm stapler
commands.

.Pp
.Nm
requires exactly one
.Ar subcommand
option to determine what action is to be performed. You can also pass -v or --verbose up to 3 times to get
increasingly verbose output. --json outputs any errors to stdout in json format.

.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
The subcommands are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Sy notary-submission
Runs the same checks on an app as the Apple notary service, to make sure the
app is ready for uploading to the service.
.Pp
Notarization gives users more confidence that the Developer ID-signed software
you distribute has been checked by Apple for malicious components. Notarization
is not App Review. The Apple notary service is an automated system that scans
your software for malicious content, checks for code-signing issues, and returns
the results to you quickly. If there are no issues, the notary service generates
a ticket for you to staple to your software; the notary service also publishes
that ticket online where Gatekeeper can find it.
.Pp
For more information on Notarization, please see:
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/notarizing_macos_software_before_distribution
.Pp
For more information on triaging common Notarization failures, please see:
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/notarizing_macos_software_before_distribution/resolving_common_notarization_issues

.It Sy distribution
Runs the same checks on your app as macOS does when determining if your app can
be executed. This includes Gatekeeper checks, XProtect checks, provisioning
profile checks, and more.
.Pp
For more information on how macOS determines if an
app can run, along with tips for debugging any launch time issues, please see:
https://developer.apple.com/forums/thread/706442.

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr codesign 1 ,
.Xr spctl 8 ,
.Xr stapler 1
