.\" Copyright 2024 Apple
.\"
.\" Licensed under the terms set forth in the LICENSE.txt file available at
.\" https://openusd.org/license.
.\"

.ft 1
..

.TH usdzip
.SH NAME
usdzip - Utility for creating a .usdz file containing USD assets and for inspecting existing .usdz files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
usdzip [output.usdz]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f[B]usdzip\f[R] is a utility that is useful for creating USDZ packages from a set of input files.


.TP
\f[V]-h\f[R], \f[V]--help\f[R]
Prints out a help message and exits.

.TP
\f[V]-r\f[R], \f[V]--recurse\f[R]
If specified, files in sub-directories are recursively added to the package.

.TP
\f[V]-a\f[R], \f[V]--asset\f[R] [ASSET]
Resolvable asset path pointing to the root layer of
the asset to be isolated and copied into the package.

.TP
\f[V]-arkitAsset\f[R] [ASSET]
Similar to the --asset option, the --arkitAsset option
packages all of the dependencies of the named scene
file. Assets targeted at the initial usdz
implementation in RealityKit operate under greater
constraints than usdz files for more general 'in
house' uses, and this option attempts to ensure that
these constraints are honored; this may involve more
transformations to the data, which may cause loss of
features such as VariantSets.

.TP
\f[V]-c\f[R], \f[V]--checkCompliance\f[R]
Perform compliance checking of the input files. If the
input asset or "root" layer fails any of the
compliance checks, the package is not created and the
program fails.

.TP
\f[V]-l\f[R], \f[V]--list\f[R] [FILE]
List contents of the specified usdz file. If a file-
path argument is provided, the list is output to a
file at the given path. If no argument is provided or
if '-' is specified as the argument, the list is
output to stdout.

.TP
\f[V]-d\f[R], \f[V]--dump\f[R] [FILE]
Dump contents of the specified usdz file. If a file-
path argument is provided, the contents are output to
a file at the given path. If no argument is provided
or if '-' is specified as the argument, the contents
are output to stdout.

.TP
\f[V]--version\f[R]
Display program version information and exits.


.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
\f[V]usdzip output.usdz --asset input.usd\f[R]
Creates a USDZ file with input.usd as the entry point.
usdzip will try and find all used resources and include them in the resulting package.