.\" Copyright 2024 Apple
.\"
.\" Licensed under the terms set forth in the LICENSE.txt file available at
.\" https://openusd.org/license.
.\"

.ft 1
..

.TH USDCRUSH
.SH NAME
usdcrush - Utility for reducing the size of a source USD.
.SH SYNOPSIS
usdcrush [inputFile] -o [output]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f[B]usdcrush\f[R] is a utility that uses various compression techniques to reduce the file size of an input USD.


.TP
\f[V]-h\f[R], \f[V]--help\f[R]
Prints out a help message and exits.

.TP
\f[V]-o\f[R], \f[V]--out\f[R]
The output file to write to. This is required.

.TP
\f[V]-c\f[R], \f[V]--compatibility\f[R] [widest | latest]
Controls how compatible the output file is with different platforms and OpenUSD versions.
Widest will provide reduced compression options, but will work in more scenarios.
Latest will use more compression techniques, but may only work with certain platforms and OpenUSD versions.
Latest is the default option.

.TP
\f[V]-t\f[R], \f[V]--textureQuality\f[R] [0-100]
A value that acts as a hint to texture compressors.


.TP
\f[V]--version\f[R]
Display program version information and exits.

.SH Compatibility Modes

.TP
\f[V]Widest\f[R]
This compatibility mode will use JPEG compression on textures it has assesed it can reduce.

\f[V]Latest\f[R]
This compatibility mode will use AVIF compression on textures it has assesed it can reduce.


.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
\f[V]usdcrush input.usdz -o output.usdz\f[R]
Analyzes input.usdz, and exports a compressed version as output.usdz.

