.Dd 2 April, 2021
.Dt cryptexctl-personalize 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm cryptexctl personalize
.Nd personalize a cryptex from a cryptex bundle
.Sh SYNOPSIS
\" Offline personalisation
.Nm cryptexctl personalize
.Op Fl -replace
.Fl -identity-plist Ar IDENTITY-PLIST
.Fl -variant Ar VARIANT
.Ar PATH-TO-CRYPTEX-BUNDLE
\" Host form...
.Nm cryptexctl personalize
.Op Fl -host-identity
.Op Fl -replace
.Fl -variant Ar VARIANT
.Ar PATH-TO-CRYPTEX-BUNDLE
\" Long form...
.Nm cryptexctl personalize
.Op Fl -replace
.Op Fl -ALGO Ar CRYPTO-ALGORITHM
.Op Fl -CEPO Ar CERTIFICATE-EPOCH
.Op Fl -BORD Ar BOARD-ID
.Op Fl -CHIP Ar CHIP-ID
.Op Fl -ECID Ar ECID
.Op Fl -SDOM Ar SDOM
.Op Fl -CPRO Ar CERTIFICATE-PRODUCTION-STATUS
.Op Fl -CSEC Ar CERTIFICATE-SECURITY-MODE
.Op Fl -EPRO Ar EFFECTIVE-PRODUCTION-STATUS
.Op Fl -ESEC Ar EFFECTIVE-SECURITY-MODE
.Op Fl -BNCH Ar NONCE-HASH
.Fl -variant Ar VARIANT
.Ar PATH-TO-CRYPTEX-BUNDLE
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm cryptexctl personalize
personalize a
.Xr cryptex 5
from a cryptex bundle. The result will be a cryptex bundle with the same
name as the original bundle but with a "signed" suffix. An im4m asset will
be added to the signed cryptex bundle on following path:
.Bd -literal
  ./Restore/Cryptex/<Cryptex Name>/im4m

.Ed
This subcommand requires that Apple's trusted signing service
-- tss.apple.com -- be reachable.
.Pp
The cryptex will be personalized for the target device by sending measurements
of the disk image content
and the identity of a device to Apple's trusted signing service
.Pq tss.apple.com .
.Pp
In most cases the device identity will be retrieved by
.Nm cryptexctl personalize
from either the host, if the host is running a
.Xr cryptexd 8
daemon, or from a connected device
.Po
See the
.Fl -udid
option on the root
.Xr cryptexctl 1
command.
.Pc
.Pp
If the device cannot be connected directly the identity can be specified
either on the command line directly
or using the
.Fl -identity-plist
argument. See
.Sx DEVICE IDENTIFIERS .
.Sh OPTIONS
A list of options with their descriptions. See
.Sx DEVICE IDENTIFIERS
for the identity arguments.
.Pp
Required:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl V | Fl -variant Ar VARIANT
The name of the cryptex
.It Ar PATH-TO-CRYPTEX-BUNDLE
The path to the cryptex bundle directory created from
.Xr cryptexctl-create 1
command, or to a mounted restore style bundle directory
.El
.Pp
Optional:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl o | Fl -output-directory Ar OUTPUT-DIRECTORY
The directory to which the cryptex should be written. Upon successful
completion, this directory will contain a directory named for the given
.Ar IDENTIFIER ,
which will contain the cryptex's constituent personalized objects
.Bq default: the current working directory
.It Fl r | Fl -replace
Replace the cryptex in
.Ar OUTPUT-DIRECTORY
if it already exists. The old directory will be rename(2)ed into a temporary
directory rather than being deleted
outright.
.It Fl I | Fl -identity-plist Ar IDENTITY-PLIST
Path to a property list whose root node is a dictionary containing a set of
key-value pairs for each aspect of device identity. The keys are the same as
argument names
.Pq "BORD", "CHIP", etc. 
and the values are all integers; defaults to the value of the environment
variable
.Ev CRYPTEXCTL_CREATE_IDENTITY .
For an example of such a property list, see
.Sx EXAMPLES .
.It Fl H | Fl -host-identity
Use the host's identity for the personalization; if specified all other
identifiers are ignored
.It Fl M | -allow-mix-n-match
Personalize with the AMNM entitlement. Only useful for Apple internal
development.
.It Fl z | -research
Cryptex will be created as a research cryptex with the cpxd tag.
.El
.Sh DEVICE IDENTIFIERS
These tags can be retrieved from a device with
.Xr cryptexctl-identity 1
for offline personalization or retrieved automatically for the host or a
connected device.
.Pp
For convenience the identity can be specified as a property list with
.Fl -identity-plist .
The property list's root node is a dictionary containing a set of key-value
pairs key-value pairs for each aspect of the device identity.
The keys are the same as the argument names
.Pq "BORD", "CHIP", etc .
.Pp
The following components comprise a host identity for cryptex creation.
For more information about these tags and the personalization process, see
.Xr cryptex-image4 7 .
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "CPRO" -compact
.It Sy ALGO
The crypto algorithm employed by the target device. Valid values are:
sha1, sha2-384
.Bq default: sha2-384
.It Sy CEPO
The certificate epoch of the target device
.It Sy BORD
The board identifier of the target device
.It Sy CHIP
The chip identifier of the target device
.It Sy ECID
The unique chip instance identifier of the target device
.It Sy SDOM
The security domain of the target device
.Bq default: 0x1
.It Sy CPRO
The certificate production status of the target device
.Bq default: 0x1
.It Sy CSEC
The certificate security mode of the target device
.Bq default: 0x1
.It Sy EPRO
The effective production status of the target device
.Bq default: 0x1
.It Sy ESEC
The effective security mode of the target device
.Bq default: 0x1
.It Sy BNCH
The nonce hash to use for the personalization. Can be retrieved with
.Xr cryptexctl-nonce 1 .
.Bq default: all zeros
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag
.It Ev CRYPTEXCTL_CREATE_IDENTITY
Sets the default value for
.Fl -identity-plist .
This is useful when personalizing for an offline
or disconnected device.
.It Ev CRYPTEXCTL_UDID
Read by the base
.Xr cryptexctl 1
command to select the device on which to operate when the
.Fl -udid
option is not specified and there is no
.Xr cryptexd 8
daemon on the host. See
.Xr cryptexctl 1
for more information about
.Ev CRYPTEXCTL_UDID .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following is an example of the content of a property list that might be passed to
.Fl -identity-plist
to personalize for an offline device.
.Bd -literal
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
<dict>
    <key>ALGO</key>
    <string>sha2-384</string>
    <key>CEPO</key>
    <string>0x0</string>
    <key>BORD</key>
    <string>0x6</string>
    <key>CHIP</key>
    <string>0x8015</string>
    <key>ECID</key>
    <string>0x184d610044a83a</string>
    <key>SDOM</key>
    <string>0x1</string>
    <key>CPRO</key>
    <false/>
    <key>CSEC</key>
    <true/>
    <key>EPRO</key>
    <false/>
    <key>ESEC</key>
    <true/>
</dict>
</plist>
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cryptexctl 1 ,
.Xr cryptexctl-create 1 ,
.Xr cryptexctl-identity 1 ,
.Xr cryptexctl-install 1 ,
.Xr cryptexctl-nonce 1 ,
.Xr cryptex 5
.Sh HISTORY
Introduced in macOS 12.0
