.\""Copyright (c) 2022 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SHAZAM-CUSTOM-CATALOG-REMOVE 1
.Os

.Sh NAME
.Nm shazam custom-catalog remove
.Nd Remove an entry from a custom catalog file.

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl \-input Ar input
.Op Fl \-signature-id Ar signature-id
.Op Fl \-media-item-ids Ar media-item-ids
.Op Fl \-output Ar output

.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
Use this command to remove signature entries from a custom catalog file. Media items associated with a signature file can also be removed from a custom catalog with this command. Removal is done with unique identifiers of the signatures and media items in the custom catalog. The IDs of signatures and media items in a custom catalog file can be obtained by running the
.Cm display
command on the custom catalog file.

.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent

.It Fl i,--input Ar input
Path to an existing custom catalog file to remove a signature and/or media item entry.

.It Fl m,--media-item-ids Ar media-item-ids
Comma separated list of media item IDs associated with a signature in a custom catalog. Use the
.Nm display
command to display the IDs of media items associated with a signature in a custom catalog. See
.Sy shazam-custom-catalog-display(1)
for more information.

.It Fl o,--output Ar output
Path to save a new custom catalog file. If this is a directory a new custom catalog file is created in that directory with the same name as the custom catalog file at
.Ar input \.

.It Fl s,--signature-id Ar signature-id
Unique identifier of a signature in a custom catalog. Use the
.Nm display
command to display the ID of a signature in a custom catalog. See
.Sy shazam-custom-catalog-display(1)
for more information.

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Sy shazam-custom-catalog-display(1), shazam-custom-catalog-export(1)

.Sh NOTES
.Bl -enum
.It
ShazamKit Documentation
.Bd -literal -compact
https://developer.apple.com/shazamkit
.El
